docs: rework structure and improve flat config docs (#8507)
typescript-eslint/typescript-eslint: docs/packages/TypeScript_ESLint.mdx

);
```

This config file exports a flat config that enables both the [core eslint recommended config](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@eslint/js) and [our recommended config](../users/Shared_Configurations.mdx#recommended).

> For more information on the `tseslint.config` function [see below](#config).

Reviewer: Making the jump more clear:

```suggestion
For more information on the `tseslint.config` function [see **`config(...)`** below](#config).
```

### Advanced usage

You can also declare our plugin and parser in your config via this package. For example this config would enable our plugin, our parser, and type-aware linting with a few of our popular type-aware rules:

```js title="eslint.config.js"
// @ts-check

import eslint from '@eslint/js';

> import importPlugin from 'eslint-plugin-import';

Reviewer 2: **sugestion:** I think it's a great idea to include and example config object using the `import` plugin but you're missing one in the config below below.

Author: oops this was supposed to be
```suggestion
import jestPlugin from 'eslint-plugin-jest';
```

I actually tossed up between `jest` and `import`.
`import` is a lot more used (~21m vs ~10m) so it's more likely it would "resonate" with people.
However it's rare that you'd configure `import` rules in a separate config object. I.e. there's no reason you'd turn on `import/consistent-type-specifier-style` on just one type of file.

I really wanted a second config object here so that I could very clearly illustrate that the function can take multiple objects.

This is ultimately went with `jest` because it gave me a excuse to add a non-contrived, real world example of a second config object because the common usecase is to just turn its rules on on test files.

import tseslint from 'typescript-eslint';

export default tseslint.config(
  {
    // config with just ignores is the replacement for `.eslintignore`
    ignores: ['**/build/**', '**/dist/**', 'src/some/file/to/ignore.ts'],

>   },

Reviewer 2: **question:** I applaud the idea of starting the example config with a global ignore in the new flat convention but is this syntax correct? I'm getting an `Object literal may only specify known properties, and 'ignores' does not exist in type 'ConfigWithExtends'.` error while attempting to refactor my own config.

Author: @pete-willard try updating to 7.0.2 first which included a fix so that TS could resolve the types correctly.

This is correct and should work just fine - it's what we do internally:
https://github.com/typescript-eslint/typescript-eslint/blob/677e7cc97c4f79cb737a4d01722777352b77b9d9/eslint.config.mjs#L45-L63

I picked it as a good example of "a separate config object" and thought it was a great example cos almost every codebase I've worked on has a `.eslintignore`!

Reviewer 2: It is a great example to have 👍🏻 I just double checked (reinstalled packages, rebooted VSCode) and I am on the .2 version and still getting that error. Mind you my config is a `.js` file with the `@ts-check` directive. I'll try more tinkering in the morning. Sorry for hijacking the comment 😅

Author: I just tested this locally and it worked.
I also added a passing test case to our integration test:
https://github.com/typescript-eslint/typescript-eslint/blob/bjz-rework-docs-20240219/packages/integration-tests/fixtures/flat-config-types/eslint.config.js#L21-L24
(this test runs to typecheck and validate we haven't broken the most barebones setup).

If you can create an isolated repro repo and file an issue - I'm happy to help investigate :)

You may choose a different namespace - but note that currently [flat configs allow the same plugin to be registered, configured, and have duplicate reports under multiple namespaces](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/discussions/17766).
:::

## `config(...)`

> The `config` function is a [variadic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Variadic_function) [identity function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Identity_function) which is a fancy way of saying that it's a function that takes `1..n` inputs and returns the inputs unchanged. It can be used to quickly and easily provide types for your flat config file. By using this function you will get autocomplete and documentation for all config properties in addition to TypeScript errors should you provide invalid values.

Author: I was trying to make it explicit what the function was so that nobody would be confused as to what the function was.

I did end up linking out because I remember the first time I read "variadic" I had to google it and then I understood what it meant -- "oh it's a function with a spread parameter".

Ultimately my goal was to make it clear that `[...]` is the same as `config(...)`, and not `config([...])`. In some of the user issues people were unclear on the usage and referenced it as `config([...])` which isn't right.

"Variadic" is nice because it immediately defines it as `config(...)` which informs the rest of the description.

I think we can do better here though.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="With helper">

```ts title="eslint.config.js"
// @ts-check

import eslint from '@eslint/js';
import tseslint from 'typescript-eslint';

export default tseslint.config(
  eslint.configs.recommended,
  ...tseslint.configs.recommended,
  {
    /*... */
  },
  // ...
);
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Without helper">

```ts title="eslint.config.js"
// @ts-check

import eslint from '@eslint/js';
import tseslint from 'typescript-eslint';

/** @type {import('typescript-eslint').Config} */
export default [
  eslint.configs.recommended,
  ...tseslint.configs.recommended,
  {
    /*... */
  },
  // ...
];
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::note

> We _**strongly**_ recommend using this utility to improve the config authoring experience — however it is entirely optional and choosing not to use it will not impact your ability to use our tooling; you'll just need to manually adjust any examples as appropriate.

Reviewer: I think everything after the _"entirely optional"_ is implied. How about we replace the space with a reminder of why it's nice?

```suggestion
We _**strongly**_ recommend using this utility to improve the config authoring experience.
However, it is entirely optional.
By choosing not to use it you lose editor autocomplete and type checking for config files.
```

Author: I don't necessarily agree - something can be "optional but you lose features" and "optional but you lose no features". I wanted to make it clear that whether or not they use this API our tooling will work the same way and (more specifically) it does not prevent them from using any feature we offer.

Reviewer: Hmm yeah makes sense. I think that idea is not very well conveyed by my suggested edits - only really implied, not stated... there's got to be a midway point.

Author: ```suggestion
We _**strongly**_ recommend using this utility to improve the config authoring experience — however it is entirely optional. By choosing not to use it you lose editor autocomplete and type checking for config files, but otherwise it will not impact your ability to use our tooling.
```

Reviewer: Love it!
